I did my exercise this morning at the hotel.
I was a good guy.
I got up at 6.30 and went up there on the treadmill.
I should be embarrassed.
I didn't want to get up, I'll tell you.
You know, these tours, you get to a hotel late at night, you tend to send down for a pizza or something, you know?
Or whatever.
Just anything that comes quick, you go to sleep, you know?
Is the tour just starting now?
I started in New York City Monday night, and I flew to Washington that very night.
I got to bed at 1 o'clock and had a 6.30 television the next morning.
So it's been New York, Washington, Boston, and I go to Detroit tonight.
Well, this should be pretty interesting.
I'm sure it's Dutch-landed country out there.
He's a good writer.
He is good.
I just met him a couple of weeks ago.
I once wrote him a letter.
I forget which book it was, and I told him how much I admired him.
And he wrote back, and he said, the feelings are mutual.
He said...
He said, I have a feeling we're both working the same side of the street.
He's a good writer.
He's a terrific writer.
You're a great writer.
This is the first 710 years.
Ten years.
How come?
I mean, you've been working your butt off, of course.
Yeah, I've been trying to put A. McBain on the map.
It's been prolific enough, but... Yeah, he's a bestseller now.
He's a bestseller, and I have to struggle.
That's a great line.
You know, I always come into these things looking for my lead and looking for my kicker.
You just gave me my last sentence of the piece.
Great, all right, let's get the lead now.
I wrote a book called Lizzie, about Lizzie Gordon.
I spent two years researching and writing that.
What was the attraction to that story?
That's a mind that has been plumbed, certainly.
Well, Evan Hunter writes about conflict, you know, generational conflict, man-woman conflict.
I'm jumping around.
This seems to be a very big generational conflict.
Certainly, yes.
woman takes a hatchet, and it's a father and a stepmother.
So I wanted to know, I wasn't so terribly interested in whodunit, you know, it wasn't a mystery novel.
I just wanted to know what were the forces at work in that house that caused this explosion.
And to put it in a nutshell, it was a flop.
Another book,
The title Lizzie came out at the same time.
Non-fiction.
I remember.
They were reviewed together.
I found myself very appearing on shows with this guy.
We were like Siamese twins, showing at the hip.
I didn't need him.
He needed me.
But as a result, neither one of them went anywhere.
Not his book or mine.
And his book was non-fiction, as I recollect.
It might have even been a random house book.
It was non-fiction and...
But his premise was that her sister did it.
Yeah, I don't think he came up with it.
It was all circumstantial, right?
Oh, bullshit.
It was all bullshit.
I mean, did this kind of sound?
Were you up for a while?
Well, I thought, you know, I figured in America you can write about whatever you want to write, and if you're a good writer.
the book should have a shot at it, especially when you spend so much time.
And I said, the hell with this.
I'm going to back off for a while.
And this was the book following Love, Dad, which was a bestseller.
That was an interesting book that came right at the end of the Vietnam Nightmare, and it happened about losing his daughter.
That was another generational conflict, too, wasn't it?
Yeah.
I still meet in...
Washington.
A woman came, that was in New York, Monday night.
A woman, about 34, 35, came over to me.
And she said, there's a copy of Love, Dad.
And she said, my sister and I send this back and forth.
She lives in L.A.
back and forth across the country every other month.
She said, this is when we need our fix to remind us of our love for our father and all that.
She must have been
1980-whatever.
Sure.
81, we think.
That was 13 years ago.
But she was... Something like that.
So she was a kid of six years.
Yeah.
And she and her sister send the book back and forth across the country to read and re-read.
That makes you feel good.
It really does.
I got a lot of letters on Love Dad from women who...
who had had troubled relationships with their father.
But that went beyond the relationships.
Again, I remember it now going back in time.
You felt that we almost lost a generation.
I think it was one of the lines you gave me was one of the premises.
Maybe we're jumping around here.
It's all right.
Sure.
So then you decided, well, all right, let's get McBain going.
Let's concentrate on McBain.
He's really well.
He's got his following, which was solid.
It's always been a very solid following.
But not bestseller, proportionally.
You wanted to crank him up a tad, right?
A cult.
It was a cult following.
And we started convincing my publishers that it wasn't enough to just...
raise sales by a thousand copies each time out, because then I'd be 92 years old when I hit the bestseller list.
Was this an ego thing, or was it a money thing?
No, it was... You see, I knew how good I was, and I knew the ones who were inferior on the bestseller list, and I thought, this is not fair.
I'm not saying that life has to be fair.
We all know.
Your mother teaches you that.
Who says it has to be fair?
But it really disturbed me that so many inferior mystery writers in a burgeoning mystery market, you know, mysties now are
Almost respectable.
Five out of ten are the best dollars for mysteries.
Beyond sales, I think even as a writing form, I mean, people respect the writers.
They're not dismissed as genre hack, shall we say.
I know.
And it bothered me.
I remember a talk we had on my publishers.
I said, you know.
Who was the host, by the way, at that point?
William Morrow.
And I said, we had a meeting.
And I said, there were a lot of contractors coming up to redo it.
How many McBanes had you done to that point, would you say, approximately?
This was, I guess, was Lullaby.
So whenever that was.
Okay, it's a Lullaby.
I'll check it out.
I said, a lot of critics in the world believe I'm the best mystery writer there is.
I said, and a lot of publishers in New York believe that too.
I said, and if you don't believe it, then let me go to another publisher who does believe it and who will let the people know about it.
And they said, no, we do believe it.
And what do you want?
And I told them, I want to be a bestseller.
And I want you to get behind me and do what it, you know how to do it.
You know how to make bestsellers.
Every publisher in the world knows how to make a bestseller, if they want to.
No question.
Whether it comes to discounting books or going out and... Advertising.
Putting together a $250,000 ad budget.
Whatever.
Going out and making sure that they're a stack of... They know how to do it.
It's not a mystery.
They know how to do it.
They will invariably say, well, this is...
We can't make a bestseller.
It's out of my hands.
How do you make a bestseller?
But they know how to do it when they want to.
Now, were you doing this yourself, or did you have your agent in there?
My agent was my wife.
My wife took an active interest in my career.
And she's a very good businesswoman.
She's a beautiful woman.
My wife's the same way.
She's marketing my call, and I'm letting her set the prices and do the whole work with me.
She's hard-headed when she has to be and hard-nosed.
And she says things in meetings that I can't say without sounding a modern.
She says them.
And we got on the list.
We finally started paying paperback, hardcover, and then paperback.
So we're on the list again.
McBean is on the list.
No.
You've moved a couple of times.
Warner Books.
Warner is doing the McBeans?
Everything.
Because I knew that you'd spread yourself around there for a while.
I remember about Love Dad was Crown, as I recollect.
Crown turned down to Lizzie.
This was another thing.
Love Dad was a bestseller.
And I told him what I wanted to write about.
Such a great story.
It's the father-daughter thing from love-dad, only pressed to the further limits.
They listened, and then they said, we're not going to offer.
It's a death world, isn't it?
It's business.
It's something, isn't it?
I was totally astonished.
Totally astonished.
It's a bit funny over there.
I mean, they're funny, isn't it?
Of course, they weren't owned by Random House yet at that point.
Well, publishers are funny.
That's what I mean, is what I'm saying.
See, Waters has a very big commitment in that.
They published one of the Matthew Hope novels, you know, The Attorney, Mary Mary.
That's out in paperback now.
They published it last year.
They're publishing Criminal Conversations.
I finished the second of the Matthew Hopes under a contract.
They have bought two 87 Precinct novels, and they're bringing out at Christmas time an 87 Precinct story boxed Christmas Eve at the 87 Precinct.
That's great.
So they have a really substantial commitment to me.
Well, there are three of you.
Sure, three.
Have you ever resolved why that's necessary for you?
Well, who's the third?
Matthew Hope is the character.
That's McBain.
He's the character.
He's a lawyer.
It's the books with all the fairy tales.
You had me confused there.
I know, it does get too hard.
I'm sorry.
It confuses me sometimes, too.
But I have to keep them separate in my own... I think you have used other names, however.
Oh, yeah, in the past.
In the past.
So it's just two that you used.
Yeah.
Okay.
Just my own name.
This has been my name since, you know, 1953.
It's a long time.
What are some of the other names you've written on them?
Kurt Cannon.
Kurt?
With a K or a C. C-U-R-T, Cannon.
Yeah.
Richard Marston, which was my three sons, Richard, Mark, and Penn.
Ezra Hammond.
When I began writing, I was writing for the pulp magazines.
And I would sometimes have three or four stories in the same edition.
And the editors didn't even know.
I worked for a literary agency, so I would just send them stories by me under different names, and they bought them.
They liked them, and they bought them.
And then...
On occasion, like Ezra Hammond, I want to start a new series, and I couldn't use McBain on it.
It's a crisis.
I couldn't use McBain because the name was under contract, so I invented another name.
For practical reasons as well.
Yeah.
But now it's just McBain and me.
Me and Ed.
I mean, I don't know.
I don't know.
which was with Morrow there for a while.
It was before Morrow, right?
Then Arbor House became Morrow.
And now it's gone in time.
And the contract went over to Morrow.
But Don Fine was the editor there and the publisher.
And he bought, I think it was 287 Precinct Home, the first of which was going to be Ice.
And he said, I think you have to reintroduce this series to the public.
This was supposed to be the bread tune on it.
It was a very good one.
Newsweek chose it as one of the top ten crime novels of the 20th century.
Ice.
No kidding.
Yeah.
It was a good, good book.
He said, reintroduce all the characters as if no one has ever met them before.
Wow.
Reintroduce them and write a big, fat novel.
And I did.
And it was a good, complicated plot.
And all the increasing characters come in for the first time.
We've seen them with fresh eyes.
But it didn't become a bestseller.
And Arbor House was just slogging along, and so was Morrow, and they inherited the mantle until we got tough.
But I was writing, I was really writing up a storm.
The books in that, starting with ICE, where at the end of ICE, street justice trials, not the police, street justice.
I began thinking of the police novel as maybe something more than just cops and robbers and whodunit.
Something where I could confront social issues, the way you do in a straight novel.
You can speak justice in here, too, by the way.
Oh, yeah, isn't it?
Pardon me for interrupting.
Go ahead.
I mean, speak justice of a fashion, I would say, certainly.
I'm sorry.
We'll get to this in a minute.
Oh, sure.
So I started thinking in terms of elevating the mystery novel to a new level.
You know, you go along, you go along, you go along, and you reach a plateau, and then you either stay there and become a hack, or you go up.
You take a shot up.
And that's what I tried to do with the 87 Precinct.
I guess challenging yourself.
I mean, the bestseller thing...
was more than, I mean, I have to believe that it was more than the remunitive element.
You really did want to elevate the game a bit, however old you were at that particular point.
You said, all right, I'm doing fine, I'm living well, but now it's time to... Time to give it another little surge with the rockets.
Time to go into that orbit.
That's right.
Get up there.
Take it.
Around the moon.
Give it that... Hit the thrusters.
Go to warp eight.
Dr. Spock, Mr. Spock.
So clearly you've done that, and you've done that.
I've done it.
You've satisfied that you've done that.
And now it's time for Evan to reassert himself.
Come back, yeah, before it's too late.
Ten years is a long time.
You know, it goes by, it goes by, and you think, oh, the time's not.
And then suddenly it's ten years between novels.
Jeez.
And if you're looking, it's 40 years since Blackboard Jungle, coincidentally.
44-0, yeah.
54 to 94.
Yeah, 40 years.
Was it that playing factor at all, you're thinking this?
I mean, were you doing some sort of... No, no.
Not in terms of an anniversary, no.
So talk to me about how this thing came into being.
It started in Boston.
I was on a tour.
Must have been with Kiss, which was a New York Times best friend, Nick Bain.
And I was going back to New York, and I met a lawyer on the plane, a woman lawyer.
And we got to talking.
I told her about this character I write.
Matthew Hope was a lawyer.
And we started discussing the archaic legal terms that descended from British law.
And she said, how about criminal conversation as one of them?
I said, what is that?
And she said, it means adultery.
I'm amazed that some of these other lawyer guys who come up with all these crazes didn't come across that one.
I know.
Thank God I got to them first.
Because that's the rage, you know, to get these.
Go ahead.
Before these amateurs who are in the writing game got to it, I grabbed it out of the air.
We've got to talk about the amateurs at some point.
I'm going to write it down so we don't forget.
Okay.
And then I thought, you know, I wanted a good idea for a novel about adultery.
And then I thought, wouldn't it be interesting, in fact, if the woman is having an affair with a criminal?
That's a classic theme, too, isn't it?
And then I said, wouldn't it be great if her DA husband is investigating this criminal?
and is listening to real criminal conversations, is wiretapping real criminal conversations.
And then I had the whole book.
It just fell into place.
All I needed to set it in motion was a bullshit arrest on a minor little thing at the tip of the iceberg that suddenly turns into mob stuff.
And when you've got a dedicated DA who starts digging, what is this?
Where are we going?
It didn't bother you about the perception of it being prepped.
It's just a bit too coincidental that the guy's life is... No, I didn't think of it that way.
In fact, you know, you got to work to make it believable.
But I didn't think it was coincidental.
I felt it could happen.
It happens.
And of course, if this guy's...
When I was working with the... People move in circles, and then they do tend to intersect at a certain point.
Yeah.
I think.
Oh, yeah.
What you're saying here.
And I thought, you know, in talking to all the DAs and everything, many of them are married, and many of them...
um, socialize with other people.
And I specifically asked, do you say what you do in his office?
And they don't.
First of all, they're involved with sensitive investigation.
Secondly, as I mentioned in the book, one of them said, you know, I've been to parties where pot is being smoked.
What am I going to do?
Bust him?
You know?
That's right.
So they keep it a secret.
So it was believable that she would be keeping her husband's identity a secret from the lover.
It's believable that he doesn't want her to know that he's a gangster.
And the husband doesn't know what the hell's going on.
You know, he doesn't know who the woman is that he's hearing on these tapes.
Because the quality of these tapes is not on that grip.
That's the ultimate schmuck.
Well, the quality of these tapes is not the best.
I mean, to get into a technical sense, I mean, she's performing at a level... Higher than he has known.
...that he's ever known.
Exactly.
Which is one of the attractions of the other guy.
Again, I can't admit to having read your whole body of work...
How many books all together is it?
Hunter Novels, this is number 19.
Okay.
And the McBanes, I think about 60 or so, maybe more.
Wow, okay.
But is this about the sexiest you've got?
I think so.
Of what I've read, I mean, you really... Yeah, I've written, like, poetic sex scenes.
I mean, you wouldn't want your 12-year-old kid to read it.
No, it's dedicated to my daughter.
She's 31.
Okay.
and before i dedicated i called them i said amanda uh i've written a book it's very very sexy i said i want to dedicate it to you because i love you a lot and i haven't dedicated a book to you since you were 11 years old i said if it's going to embarrass you i don't want to do it i said i'm going to send you the manuscript
And if it embarrasses you in the slightest, you let me know and I'll dedicate it to someone else.
And she called me and she said, Dad, I'd be proud to have this book dedicated to you.
That's nice, huh?
Yeah, it was really nice.
It made me think, boy, I raised a mensch.
I raised a real woman.
How did you feel?
You know, I mean, again, 87th Precinct stuff is...
You know, police stuff.
How did you feel about getting into this?
Gangster stuff?
Well, not just the gangster stuff, but I mean the bedroom stuff.
The bedroom stuff?
Right.
See, in the 87 precinct, Cruella never has sex with anyone except his wife.
He doesn't go gay at an age either.
No, never.
But women are always hitting on him, but he never responds.
He comes close to responding, but he never does.
I got a letter once from a woman...
I wrote a book called Ghosts, in which there's a psychic who can tell things by touching clothes and going into a trance.
And Corella has been with the victim, close to the victims, and she grabs him and kisses him, suddenly, so she can get the vibrations.
And he tells Teddy about it that night, and he says, I didn't kiss her.
She grabbed, she kissed me.
I got a letter from a lot of women.
The gist of it was, I don't care what Teddy believes, but it takes two to tango.
And he'd better not ever do it again.
And boy, I believed they would come to my door with an act if I did, you know, if Cruella ever was unfaithful.
Tell me about getting into this now.
The difference in the 87th precinct, an editor years ago said that the books had what he called clinical verity.
And, like, the sex in the 87 precinct would be, like, more concerned with the presence of sperm in the vaginal hole.
Forensic.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Whether the woman had been raped or not.
Right.
because of certain writers in the genre, and because of the pulp background where intimated sex was always a necessity in the story, a given.
You know, you always had the gartered silk stockings showing below the hem of the skirt when she crossed her legs, and the low-cut blouses exposing creamy white breasts, you know.
You get some of that in here, as a matter of fact.
Not so much.
Well, I mean, the teasing.
But I mean, the teasing, the language, that one scene where she's driving him nuts where she's hugging her thighs.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's a good scene.
That's a great scene.
You notice, by the way, did you notice that all of these scenes are written from the female viewpoint?
Every one of them.
Not a single scene is from Andrew's view, always from Sarah's.
Now that was a challenge for you.
I never even realized it until I started rereading the book.
I got a few tricks here I want to show too, I think.
Oh yeah, I want to show the kids, the new kids on the block, how to do it.
You feel that?
The amateurs, yeah.
Sure.
You know, I've learned a few things over here.
Let's get back to the sex thing and get back to this, because this is very... So I thought... You don't mind my jumping around like this.
Believe me, when I transcribe, it's all very quick.
It sounds like the tapes I listen to, you know, the transcripts, the guys are all jumping around for one.
I transcribe these at night when the writing time is over.
We have plenty.
11 o'clock.
I had written a previous book about adultery.
Strange is one of these.
It's made in two movies with Kirk Douglas and Kim Dover.
That was 56 or something like that.
That was 58.
Tame stuff.
And I thought, you know, if you're going to write about adultery, people in the bedroom don't go there to sip tea.
You know?
And adulterers, you don't normally see them in restaurants, unless it's out of the way places.
Ironically, the restaurant doesn't come in at the end.
Let me tell you a funny story.
This is off the record.
A friend of mine, speaking of adultery, his next-door neighbor, they have a dog, and his next-door neighbor said, if that dog comes in my yard ever again, I'm going to poison him.
You better put him on a cane and keep him far away from my yard, because he was strolling into the other guy's yard.
He said, I swear to you, I'll poison him.
He and his wife went away to a place in the country for the weekend.
And there, sitting at a table with a bimbo, is the Victor neighbor with a blonde bimbo.
And my friend said, I saw him and he saw me.
And I gave him, he said, I put an eye lock on him.
I gave him such an eye lock so he'd known I saw him.
Then, as a souvenir of the place, they took photographs and put them on little keychains.
And they were all on a table.
And you had to go get the keychain, find your photograph, and take it.
And they had a picture of him in the bimbo.
And my friend, my friend ran to the table.
And the other guy is running to the table at the same time.
And my friend is looking not for his key, for the other key.
He grabs the key, and he goes to him.
Never heard another word about the dog ever, ever, ever.
Funny, adultery.
You can use that in a book.
I know.
Getting back.
Right, getting back.
So I figured, you know, Picasso, when he reached a certain age, started painting erotic pictures.
Why not do some good erotic themes?
Oh, you remember the Andrew Wyeth paintings?
I beg your pardon?
Do you remember the Andrew Wyeth paintings of a couple of years ago?
Oh, of course.
What Helga?
I mean, I said, my God, well, what are you doing all these years up in the barn?
Yeah, paint the Helga.
He was doing Helga.
And that was amazing.
That's an even better example.
These are quite graphic.
Anyway, go ahead.
So I figured, oh, let's pull out all the stops.
In this day and age, you can do anything you want to do.
You weren't embarrassed at all at the beginning.
Why would I be embarrassed?
What embarrasses me is when I go to a movie theater, and everybody, every character in the movie, whether she's a housewife, a lawyer, a doctor, says fuck every third word.
That embarrasses me.
That embarrasses me, too.
Because it's a gratuitous obscenity.
My gangsters say fuck a lot.
And cops say it a lot.
Where it's appropriate for the scene.
But here, everybody says that.
In movies today, it's as if you've let the 12-year-olds out in the schoolyard and they can scream obscenity.
The resolution is almost preordained.
It's almost like a Romeo and Juliet thing.
Yeah, I think so.
Don't give it away.
No, no, of course, I never do.
It has to...
It's inevitable.
I almost knew it was going to be a restaurant, too.
Did you?
Well, that's where all the robots are.
Plus the fact that they never go out, too.
But the ironic nature of it.
My daughter burst into tears when she got to that scene.
Because oddly enough, even though it's a star-crossed match, and we know that they should never have started this damn thing, and they're all wrong for each other, the reader wants this passion to survive.
For both of them, you know.
He's great, he's great.
He gives up the girlfriends, which is amazing.
Yeah.
He's a scoundrel, he's a rogue, you know, a scoundrel, and he reforms, he falls in love with them.
The last thing he wants to do on earth.
He wants to marry you.
Yeah.
He wants you to leave his...
But, you know, what are your alternate endings?
What is she going to say?
Yes, I'll marry you, and I'll wait for you while you're in prison for 20 years.
No, no, no, I had to see.
Or they come and they kill him.
Now, this could almost, given the theme and the crime and stuff, you almost could have used elements of this in an enemy being had you chosen.
I don't think so.
I think in your writing a mystery, there's always a body to start it.
The body is what kicks the plot into motion.
And we're always concerned about whodunit.
That's the contract you make with the reader.
However many social issues you introduce, you can't get up on a soapbox too often.
You've got to remember the contract always.
So you have to understand that, you know, it's baseball.
We've got to play by the rules of baseball.
Exactly.
Two different genres entirely.
The straight novel and the... Did you feel the tug of doing something?
I mean, do you consider this serious work as opposed to the other is not serious?
No, I think of the mysteries as serious.
But you see, I think, I know in my heart of hearts, I can write the best mystery in the universe.
I can write the best 20 mysteries in the universe.
I'm never going to get the Pulitzer Prize for a mystery, ever.
I'm not going to get it for this either.
I mean, I'm not going to get it, because this is not considered in what in this country is called qua lit.
You know, quality literature, serious literature.
I think there's a lot about the world we live in today, but it won't be considered seriously.
It'll be considered a popular novel.
But there is a difference between the mystery and the straight novel.
Where were we going?
I really would like to talk about that, you know, because every time you said you teach the amateur something, there's an edge to your voice.
Well, it's disturbing me more and more of late.
And in general, also talk about the profession of writer.
You are the quintessential pro, I think, is certainly my perception of you.
Thank you.
You said it, not me.
I don't like to say it about myself.
It's my lead, isn't it?
Thank you.
That's very kind.
That's the highest accolade anyone should give this.
But anyway, maybe just... That's my phrase.
What troubles me a lot about these Johnny-come-latelyers is that they spring from the earth.
They haven't had any real training.
They haven't paid their dues.
Well, before I wrote The Black Boar Jungle, I had had about 60 short stories published.
I had had three science fiction novels for young adults published.
I had had two mystery novels published.
And then came The Black Boar Jungle.
You know, I had worked at it.
And in college, I had taken every writing course they offered, from poetry to playwriting to short stories to essays, whatever they offered.
I wrote a column for the school newspaper.
I wanted to be a writer.
This was my solid background for it.
These guys, they spring out of the earth.
They write badly.
They suddenly get a book that leaps into number one on the bestseller list.
With their inflated egos, they write another book.
They're intoxicated with the scent of their own perfumes.
And the other book becomes a bestseller, and the next thing you know, they think of themselves as writers.
And I don't think of themselves as writers.
I think of them as lucky amateurs.
Sure.
Well, you look at it, and I'm not asking you to comment and say it to Tom Clancy, for instance, but I don't think you've read any of his books.
Never.
I think it's a case where he probably represents 10 or 15 or 20 percent of the gross of Putnam's, and they're afraid to edit him.
But, I mean, you can't touch his copy, is what I hear.
I don't know.
1,300-page books, you know, that could probably be told nearly 400 pages, you know.
But his ego takes over.
I read this book.
Now we're back home.
Can we just finish with the amateur thing?
Sure.
So it just, it irks me.
I feel people should, you know, I wouldn't let a guy come in off the street and take out my appendix.
without having gone to medical school and knowing there was something about surgery.
And it seems to me some guy shouldn't come out of the street and write a novel without any background.
Well, everybody certainly has the right to try, whether or not it should be acclaimed as the greatest thing since the day of the jackpot.
You know, I think we're sending a message.
I think we're sending the jackpot message to America that anybody can sit down with no training or anything and write a book,
And it can be illiterate.
It can be the worst prose that you've ever read in your life.
And you can hit the big million-dollar, multi-million-dollar jackpot, and it'll be a movie, and number one on the bestseller list, and all that.
And that's a wrong message, essentially.
It's against the work ethic, to me.
To me, it drives me nuts.
One of the reasons my book was canceled at Random House is because they had so little money.
tied up with me, and they had tons, millions upon millions, tied up with the plot.
You know, they have, I mean, for other writers.
Yeah, I mean, for writers who have spent five or six years on public,
who deserve a shot.
All of a sudden, they're losing their ass on guns.
They've got to cut it someplace else.
Not only is it not right for the message it sends out, it's not right for the other serious writers who are working.
Well, you see, the publisher will say, yeah, but when we make money on these blockbusters, then this allows us to print poetry and serious fiction.
Number one, they don't print poetry anymore.
Number two, the November 1st novel that you see was
Yeah, but we have time.
Okay.
Well, we've got ten minutes.
Let's tell you a little, you know, a quote.
I've got the quotes elsewhere.
I mean, like Bob Parker Spencer does age at about three-quarter speed, you know, in real life.
But your 87th Precinct stuff is really fixed.
They're all 30-something.
Yeah.
They're still all 30-something.
Haven't you ever thought about bringing them along with you a little bit?
No, because then they'd be dung.
Daughtering old fools.
Investigating crimes.
They'll be coming in on walkers.
Lieutenant Burns will be in a wheelchair.
What's going on, Steve?
But the readers don't complain about this.
They accept it.
Some of them get confused by it.
I get a letter every now and then.
How come the twins were born and they're still only 10 years old?
I sent them a chapter from it.
A guy wrote a book about the 85th Precinct.
And I sent them his chapter from...
The elastic calendar and the perpetual clock or something like that.
And I just send them that chapter.
So here, read this and we'll explain the whole work.
That's great.
Are you happy to be back with Levin Hunter again?
Yeah.
So are we going to wait another ten years for the next one?
No, no.
I've been working on another one anyway.
That's a very ambitious book.
And I hope I get it right.
I haven't got it right yet, but I will.
It starts in ancient Sumeria, and it comes up to today, through the ages.
So it's a big, fat book, and it'll probably be... I think it's the best thing I've ever done, if I ever get it right.
I haven't got it right yet.
I'll get it right.
Does it bother you that writers of mystery... Of course, it's changing, but are...
in some cases dismissed by the literati as genre writers.
It used to bother me.
It doesn't any longer.
There are about ten old men in Sweden deciding on who gets the Nobel Prize.
And even then it's very political.
Graham Greene never got it.
But Edna Furbin did.
But Edna Furbin did, yeah.
Sort of Pearl S. Buck.
Remember Pearl Buck?
Sure.
One book.
Yeah, The Good Earth.
Well, Dragon Seed.
Yeah, one book that certainly has stood the test of time.
Yeah, Tony Morrison.
You know, does she deserve to know about that?
Eight, nine books.
Politically correct.
Of course.
Would you kindly be honored on this?
Indeed me.